Hello and welcome back.
now that we have index page listing all questions,
let's go ahead and add user information as well as
question creation date in every single question.
So in this lesson you'll learn how to use eloquent accessor, how to format the timestamp, and how to use
eager loading to alleviates N + 1 query problem.
All right before we moving on.
let's go ahead on open our terminal
and here
let's create a new branch
git checkout -b
and then the branch name
lesson-5
now, let's head over to our editor. Open question index.blade.php
and jump to `media-body`
and here let's put the question title into an anchor tag
like so
in `href` attribute let's change this to
question
url
We haven't defined `url` attribute in our questions table but letter we'll be defined that only in
our question model.
So in this case we want do like this route
questions.show
question id. But we'll make simplify our view by encapsulating it in the Question model
So question url
Next
let's add a paragraph
and we give a class `lead` a class that provided by bootstrap to make the text a little bigger
Then inside this we'll say asked
by and then an anchor tag
the href will be
question user url
and then the text will be question
user name
so that a little information of the user or author that created the question that we add for now
Next let's edit a creation date
here
I'll put it in small tag
I'll give it a class `text-muted` to make the text a little gray and the content will be question
and then let's say created_date
so here we have some attributes which doesn't exist in our models
`url` in question model. Then `url` in user model and created date in the question
model.
OK, let's start define the `url` attribute first
Let's open the question model
and inside this model let's define the url attribute.
Actually here we will not define a real attribute,
but instead we will define an accessor
So basically accessors allow us to format Eloquent attribute values when we retrieve them on model
instances.
So to define accessor we start with `get`,
and then the attribute name
in this case `Url` and last, accessor should be end with `Attribute`
and inside this, we simply return
url for this question by simply call
return route "questions.show" and then pass the question id. Since we're inside the question model
here we simply call this id
So by doing this, as if we have `url` attribute in this Question model. And it will return
url for the current question
Makes sense right?
OK, let's also define another accessor for `created_date`
so get created date
attribute
So here we define the attribute name in camel case,
but when we call it as we did in our view
we only need to call it in snake case.
Actually
here we can define as `CreatedAt` like the existing attribute in our model
But, by doing this we will get formatted date whenever we call the `created_at`. Here I want to keep that with
original value.
That's why I call it with other name
created_date in this case
OK inside this, we simply return this created_at. And since the `created_at` and `updated_at` attribute treated
by eloquent as carbon object
so here we can format it with any date format
But here I want to format it like two days ago a month ago or something like that.
So here I'll call `diffForHumans` method
Let me actually show it to you.
I'll save all changes
and then, I'll open tinker: php artisan tinker
And here
I'll get the first question
q equals
App Question first. OK let me show the created_at q created_at
as you can see it's a carbon instance
now I'll format it using diffForHumans q created_at
diffForHumans
OK
And how it presented in human readable date.
You can also format it using format like so
format and the format let's say d m y.
Now you see the date is presented in day month and year format.
I hope that makes sense.
Let me exit the tinker and back to my editor
Okay
Now let's also define `url` accessor in the `User` model
actually let's simply copy
this accessor. Open the user model
and then paste it here.
Now, since we haven't any routes for user
so for now let's comment this line
and return a hash like this.
OK let's save all changes and see how it look like. Reload the page
OK here we have author of the question
and then the date in human readable format.
And if you try to click the title
here we see that the URL was changed, but we will got blank page. This because so far we only modified `index`
method, and other methods are still empty.